We got a taste of what was to come last year. However, the Amapiano genre promise has come to fruition this year, with the genre blossoming to legitimately rival Afrobeats as Africa’s most popular sound. Amapiano has a very distinct and unique sound, and the fact that it is a mash-up of many genres contributes to its explosiveness. It’s the Kwaito of the twenty-first century. Amapiano is making waves not only in Mzans (South Africa), but all over the world. As a result of the events, some celebrities have risen to prominence. Everyone can agree that the genre has a hook and that the mood is distinct. Most of the Amapiano Music Fan Stream Online or Use Download Mp3 Fakaza to search for the Trending songs on Google or Tiktok but 1height Music also provides New hit song for Download. The likes of DJ Maphorisa, Kabza De Small, Focalistic, and Major League DJz have become continental superstars, with their music blasting loudly and proudly in places like Nairobi, Lagos etc. Top Amapiano artists in South Africa 2022 1. (Scorpion Kings (DJ Maphorisa & Kabza De Small) 2. Busta 929 3. De Mthuda 4. Mr JazziQ 5. DBN Gogo 6. Major League DJz 7. Focalistic 8. Musa Keys 9. Vigro Deep 10. Lady Du 11. Nkosazana Daughter 12. Mellow & Sleazy   13. Soa Mattrix 14. Boohle 15. Young Stunna The Scorpion Kings was a hit Amapiano album with Over 10milion online Streams by the famous DJ, producer, and songwriters duo. However, one cannot exist without the other, and the pair has made a significant contribution to Amapiano Music over the years. Mfana Thupa, better known as Busta 929, was born in the South African city of Midrand in the Gauteng province. Busta 929, another Amapiano DJ and producer, is one of our top piano recommendations for this year. Busta 929 knows how to capture and hold the attention of his audience until the end of his song. His album “Umsebenzi Wethu EP” was certified multi-platinum. He also dominated the airwaves with the third chapter of his project, “Undisputed Vol 3,” and fans couldn’t get enough of it. We’ve heard he has loftier goals for the coming year. Young Stunna appeared out of nowhere last year on the wings of Kabza De Small and DJ Maphorisa and went on to become one of the year’s biggest successes. He received praise for his chart-topping debut album “Notumato.” He began 2022 with “Adiwele,” the most played song on South African radio, featuring Kabza De Small. And, yes, he has appeared in a number of new entries. De Mthuda, a Mzansi DJ and producer, is everything a hitmaker should be. Mthuda, undeniably one of the most consistent producers on the scene, has released new songs and collaborations with Sam Deep, Nomfundo Moh, and others. In addition, he recently contributed to the majority of the tracks on Kwiish SA’s new album “Umshiso, Vol 2.” The Major League DJz have maintained their status as one of the most entertaining hitmakers in the country. Following a successful tour earlier this year, the talented duo continued their “Amapiano Live Balcony Mix” series with new episodes featuring DBN Gogo, Kabza De Small, and others. They’ve also released a new installment of the “Piano City” mix and collaborated on “War” with LuuDaDeejay and Balcony Mix Africa. Amapiano are Available on YouTube, Apple Music, Spotify, YouTube Music, Deezer   Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 