The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has challenged the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, to subject himself to a ‘long’ interview as he (Atiku) recently did. Atiku was responding to the statement by the Tinubu Campaign Organisation earlier on Saturday attacking him on some issues he discussed in the interview with Arise TV. In the interview on Friday, the former vice president attacked the APC and Mr Tinubu for settling for a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket for the 2023 election. He was referring to the choice of former Borno State governor and serving senator, Kashim Shettima, as the running mate to Mr Tinubu. Both Messrs Tinubu and Shettima are Muslims. The Tinubu campaign accused Atiku of illegally enriching himself when he was in government. The statement by the Director of Media and Communications of the organisation, Bayo Onanuga, also accused the PDP candidate of hypocrisy, spreading falsehood and of having a poor grasp of history and current affairs. But a statement by Atiku’s media aide, Paul Ibe, on Saturday night, challenged Mr Tinubu to subject himself to an hour long interview as did Atiku if he was “mentally present” and articulate enough to do so. It said Mr Tinubu and his “yes men” were not in a position to criticise Atiku when they had not sat on the ‘hot seat’. “We would like to challenge Bola Tinubu to subject himself to an hour long interview, like the Waziri did, and if he is able to be as articulate and mentally present as our candidate, then he can talk. “Until then, we will only want to remind him and his yes men that they are not in a position to point fingers when they have not sat on the hot seat,” the statement said. It also responded to other issues the Tinubu campaign raised, including his (Atiku) time in Nigeria Customs Service and academic qualifications. Below is the full statement by Atiku’s media adviser PRESS RELEASE We Challenge Bola Tinubu To Take The Hot Seat We were rather amused to read the knee jerk response from the Tinubu Campaign Organisation to the wave making interview granted by Waziri Atiku Abubakar to Arise TV on Thursday, July 21, 2022. Amusement, because we expected this. Mr. Tinubu has not sat down to do any prolonged interview for obvious reasons. Nigerians have seen him talk in public and can themselves gauge the reason why he is mortified to do so.   Nevertheless, I will now take the issues in their statement one after the other. * The Tinubu campaign exposed its gross desperation and vacuousness by citing the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) 1999, to declare Waziri Atiku Abubakar’s stance on engaging in a side business while he was a young custom officer as a breach of the law. It is pertinent to educate the Tinubu campaign organisation that Nigeria is not under a military regime and our Constitutions are not retroactive in nature. * Again, the Tinubu campaign betrayed either dishonesty or lack of attention to detail by claiming that Atiku Abubakar said oil contributed 20% of Nigeria’s GDP. That is a lie. What the Waziri said is as follows: “Oil only maybe accounts for about 20% of our GDP”. * The use of the word maybe by the Waziri was in reflection to the different figures given. While the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics states a figure close to 10%, other multilateral organisations have given a much higher figure of between 15-20%. So, while the jury is still out, it is right to qualify the contribution of oil and gas as a maybe. However, we do like to point out that Waziri Atiku Abubakar mentioned both the PDP and the APC during the interview and did not forget the name of his own party. * It seems the Tinubu campaign organisation (can a disorganised body be called an organisation?) does not know the meaning of rotation of power and micro zoning. So, we will gladly educate them. Rotation of power refers to a constitutional provision where power is zoned between North and South. Micro-zoning refers to a non constitutional idea, where power is zoned not between North and South, but amongst geo-political zones. We hope this cures the political illiteracy of the authors of that document. * The rude response also accuses Waziri Atiku Abubakar of having “limited education”. Atiku Abubakar has an earned Masters degree from Anglia Ruskin University. We challenge any of the present Presidential candidates to present an equal or higher degree. Moreover, his university attendance is a matter of verified record. Can we say the same about some other persons? * On President Lincoln, we are afraid the poor student of history is the Tinubu campaign disorganisation. Yes, it is true that Lincoln ran for President with his name on the ballot twice. But he ran at other times, and failed to get his name on the ballot. * In conclusion, we would like to challenge Bola Tinubu to subject himself to an hour long interview, like the Waziri did, and if he is able to be as articulate and mentally present as our candidate, then he can talk. Until then, we will only want to remind him and his yes men that they are not in a position to point fingers when they have not sat on the hot seat. Paul Ibe
Media Adviser to Atiku Abubakar
Presidential candidate of the PDP and Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007
Abuja
July 23, 2022 Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 