Hours after the leadership of the Nigerian military told President Muhammadu Buhari that it had adopted a ‘new strategy’ to tackle the insecurity in the country, the army announced the redeployment of senior officers. The Chief of Army Staff, Faruk Yahaya, approved the posting and appointment of some top officers to command, instructional and staff positions across formations and units. The appointments were announced in a statement issued by the Director, Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, on Thursday in Abuja. Mr Nwachukwu said the new postings and appointments were done in an effort to reposition the army for operational efficiency. According to him, those affected in the redeployment include some Principal Staff Officers of the Army Headquarters, General Officers Commanding, Corps Commanders, Commandants of training institutions, Brigade Commanders, Commanding Officers, amongst others. He said the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Umaru Musa, a major general, had been redeployed to 82 as new GOC, while Taoreed Lagbaja, a major general, moves from 82 Division to 1 Division as new GOC. The army spokesman said that OC Ajunwa, a major general, had been moved from Nigeria Defence Section in Brasilia to HQ 81 Division as GOC, while the Commandant, Depot Nigerian Army, Aminu Chinade, a major general, had been moved to 2 Division as GOC. He also said that OW Ali, a major general, had been redeployed from Headquarters Command, Army Records, to AHQ as Chief of Administration (Army), while S Muhammed, a major general, had been moved from Defence Headquarters to AHQ as Chief of Army Standards and Evaluation (Army). According to him, James Ataguba, a major general, moves from AHQ Department of Army Standards and Evaluation to Defence Headquarters and appointed, Director, Peace Keeping Operations, while Adekunle Adesope, a major general, was moved from Army Finance Corps to DHQ and appointed as Chief of Defence, Accounts and Budget. “Maj.-Gen. Usman Mohammed moves from Army Headquarters, Department of Administration, to Nigerian Army Resource Centre and appointment Senior Research Fellow. “Other senior officers affected in the redeployment are Maj.-Gen. Preye Fakrogha, from DHQ Garrison to Defence Space Administration and appointed Director Policy, Plans and Research, while Maj.-Gen. MO Enendu moves from Nigerian Army College of Logistics to DHQ and appointed Director Psychological Warfare. “Maj.-Gen. Adikwu Attu moves from DHQ Department of Training and Operations to DHQ Garrison and appointed Commander, while Maj.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko moves from the Directorate of Defence Media Operations to DHQ Department of Logistics and appointed Director Procurement,” he said. Mr Nwachukwu said that AM Alabi, a major general, had been appointed Corps Commander, Nigerian Army Ordnance Corps; A Mohammed, a major general, is now the Corps Commander, Nigerian Army Electrical Mechanical Engineers and E Akerejola, a major general, had been appointed Commander, Corps of Supply and Transport. He said that AA Fayemiwo, a major general, had been redeployed from Nigerian Army Welfare Holdings Limited and appointed Chief of Accounts and Budget (Army). “Senior officers newly appointed as Commandants of Nigerian Army training institutions are Maj.-Gen. P.I. Eze, Commandant, Nigerian Army Ordinance School; Maj.-Gen. AA Adeyinka, as Commandant, Nigerian Army College of Logistics and Maj.-Gen. P.P. Malla appointed Commandant, Depot, Nigerian Army, while Brig.-Gen. UT Otaru has been appointed Acting Commandant, Nigerian Army School of Supply and Transport,” he said. Other appointments, according to Mr Nwachukwu, are those of Brigade Commanders. He said the Chief of Army Staff had directed all the newly appointed senior officers to redouble their effort and commitment to duty in tackling the security challenges bedeviling the nation, as they assume their new appointments.   Earlier on Thursday, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, briefed journalists after the National Security Council meeting presided by President Muhammadu Buhari. The army chief and other defence chiefs were at the meeting. “The members of the armed forces have also made a commitment that in the coming weeks, they have already started working on a new strategy to deal with these snippets of violence,” Mr Monguno said. Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 